Convert syntax extensions chapter to prodn (#11718)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/user-extensions/syntax-extensions.rst

Notations
---------

.. cmd:: Notation @string := @one_term {? ( {+, @syntax_modifier } ) } {? : @scope }
   :undocumented:

   This command supports the :attr:`local` attribute, which limits the scope to the
   current module.

Basic notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   .. todo indent what follows (to and including the note)?

>       this chapter is not consistent with other chapters.  Do we have a standard?

Author: Henceforth, I'll use "todo PR" to indicate things that are meant to be resolved during the review

Notations
---------

Basic notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cmd:: Notation @string := @one_term {? ( {+, @syntax_modifier } ) } {? : @scope_name }

   Defines a *notation*, an alternate syntax for entering or displaying
   a specific term or term pattern.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` attribute, which limits its effect to the
   current module.
   If the command is inside a section, its effect is limited to the section.

   Specifying :token:`scope_name` associates the notation with that scope.  Otherwise
   it is a *lonely notation*, that is, not associated with a scope.

>    .. todo PR Are lonely notations not encouraged or perhaps should be removed?

Reviewer: They are certainly discouraged in libraries, but are definitely convenient in small projects, so no they shouldn't be removed.

Basic notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. cmd:: Notation @string := @one_term {? ( {+, @syntax_modifier } ) } {? : @ident }

Author: Yes, same change for `Reserved Notation` `String Notation` and `Numeral Notation`, but not for `Tactic Notation` (for which I guess it's not needed).  (And FWIW, very easy to lose subscripts as in `@qualid__print`.)

   .. insertprodn syntax_modifier syntax_extension_type

   .. prodn::
      syntax_modifier ::= at level @num
      | in custom @ident
      | in custom @ident at level @num
      | left associativity
      | right associativity
      | no associativity
      | only printing
      | only parsing
      | format @string {? @string }
      | @ident , {+, @ident } at @level
      | @ident at @level {? @constr_as_binder_kind }
      | @ident @constr_as_binder_kind
      | @ident @syntax_extension_type
      level ::= level @num
      | next level

>       constr_as_binder_kind ::= as ident

Reviewer: Was called `binderinterp` in the former `productionlist`. Probably worth keeping that name.

      | as pattern
      | as strict pattern

>       syntax_extension_type ::= ident

Reviewer: Was called `explicit_subentry` in the former `productionlist`.

expression (see :ref:`ReservingNotations`), explicit precedences and
associativity rules have to be given.

> .. todo PR above is correct?

Reviewer: I don't know but it seems to be generally the case.

Reviewer 2: It's sort-of tautologically true.  The question is "when does Coq know how to deal with the syntactic expression?"  The obvious case is "you gave `Reserved Notation` for it", but there are a few others, such as when there is just a symbol (`Notation "'new-symbol'" := O.` works and emits "Setting notation at level 0.") or a couple symbols (`Notation "'new-symbol' 'another-symbol'" := O.`).  I think those are the only special cases.  (Okay, I guess technically if you declare a notation `only parsing` and you have a `Reserved Notation` that is also `only parsing` then the pretty-printer doesn't know how to deal with the expression, but it works anyway because it doesn't need to.)

The :cmd:`Infix` command is a shortcut for declaring notations for infix
symbols.

.. cmd:: Infix @string := @one_term {? ( {+, @syntax_modifier } ) } {? : @scope }

   This command is equivalent to

       :n:`Notation "x @symbol y" := (@term x y) {? ( {+, @syntax_modifier } ) } {? : @scope }`

>    where ``x`` and ``y`` are fresh names. Here is an example.

Author: Take a look.

   .. note:: The notations mentioned in the module :ref:`init-notations` are reserved. Hence
             their precedence and associativity cannot be changed.

   .. cmd:: Reserved Infix @string {? ( {+, @syntax_modifier } ) }

      This command declares an infix parsing rule without giving its
      interpretation.

   When a format is attached to a reserved notation, it is used by
   default by all subsequent interpretations of the corresponding
   notation. Individual interpretations can override the format.

   .. todo PR: this is talking about (A + B) vs (A + B)%nat, right?

>       wording could be better

Reviewer: Right, although I don't know what a "format" is.

Reviewer 2: No, this is not about `(A + B)` vs `(A + B)%nat`.  This is talking about things like
```coq
Reserved Notation "f +" (at level 50, format "f +").
```
where you can adjust the spacing and line-breaking of printing.

   If on, parentheses are printed even if implied by associativity and precedence
   Default is off.

.. cmd:: Print Grammar @ident

   Shows the grammar for the nonterminal :token:`ident`, which must be one of the following:

   - `constr` - for :token:`term`\s
   - `pattern` - for :token:`pattern`\s

>    - `tactic` - for currently-defined tactic notations, :token:`tactic`\s and tacticals with

Reviewer: What is the trailing with.

   - `vernac` - for :token:`command`\s

   The first three of these give the precedence and associativity for each construct.
   For example, these lines printed by `Print Grammar tactic` indicates that the `try` construct

>    is at level 3 and right-associative.  `SELF` represents the `tactic_expr` nonterminal

Reviewer: Shouldn't it be:
```suggestion
   is at level 3 and right-associative.  `SELF` represents the :n:`@ltac_expr` nonterminal
```

Author: This was intentional because `Print Grammar tactic` shows `Entry tactic:tactic_expr is` as the nonterminal name.

I tweaked the wording here:

```
   - `tactic` - for currently-defined tactic notations, :token:`tactic`\s and tacticals
     (corresponding to :token:`ltac_expr` in the documentation).
```

   at level 5 (the top level)::

     | "3" RIGHTA
       [ IDENT "try"; SELF

   Note that the productions printed by this command are represented in the form used by the
   XXX parser, which differs from how productions are shown in the documentation.  The grammar
   described in this documentation is equivalent to the grammar of the |Coq| parser, but has been
   heavily edited to improve readability and presentation.

>    .. todo PR  XXX above = ??  Can we link to a description?

Reviewer: You mean the "coqpp parser"? Well, no, there is no description available. Just say "the internal coqpp parser".

Reviewer 2: It's not quite internal, since it needs to be used by plugin developers writing .mlg files

Notations disappear when a section is closed.

.. _Scopes:

Interpretation scopes
----------------------

>    .. todo Would "notation scope" be a better term?  Do we have multiple types of scope?

Author: "notation scopes" suggests notations; "interpretation scopes" is much more vague.  Let's see what @herbelin thinks.

>    .. todo Would "notation scope" be a better term?  Do we have multiple types of scope?

Reviewer 3: I used to avoid scopes which is too general and I called them interpretation scopes (implicitly scopes for interpretation of notations). Notation scopes would be good and more focussed than interpretation scopes. As you prefer.

   .. insertprodn scope scope

   .. prodn::
      scope ::= @ident

>    .. todo explain whether scope names and scope keys are interchangeable

Reviewer: No. For instance the following fails:

```coq
Check (1 + 1)%nat_scope.
```

It should be instead:

```coq
Check (1 + 1)%nat.
```

The following raises a warning (because it is implicitly declaring a new scope `nat`):

```coq
Notation "x @ y" := (Nat.add x y) (at level 200) : nat.
```

This should be instead:

```coq
Notation "x @ y" := (Nat.add x y) (at level 200) : nat_scope.
```

Reviewer 3: I know the distinction is confusing...

.. cmd:: Declare Scope @scope

   Declares a new :n:`@scope. Note that the initial
   state of Coq declares the following interpretation scopes:
   ``core_scope``, ``type_scope``, ``function_scope``, ``nat_scope``,
   ``bool_scope``, ``list_scope``, ``int_scope``, ``uint_scope``.

The syntax to associate a notation with a scope is given

> :ref:`above <NotationSyntax>`. Here is a typical example which declares the

Author: Moved part of it and dropped the repetitive example.

I think "Use commands such as :cmd:`Notation` to add notations to the scope." is simpler here.  However, I notice that `Notation` doesn't say how `scope_name` is used.  It appears that omitting `scope_name` makes it a lonely notation (even within `Declare Scope` or `Open Scope`.  I tried:

```
Declare Scope jim_scope.
Open Scope nat_scope.
Notation "A /\ B" := (and A B).
Print Visibility.
```

> :ref:`above <NotationSyntax>`. Here is a typical example which declares the

Reviewer: That's correct indeed.

             due to legacy notation in the Coq standard library.
             It can be turned on with the ``-w disj-pattern-notation`` flag.

.. _Scopes:

Notation scopes
---------------

A *notation scope* is a set of notations for terms with their
interpretations. Notation scopes provide a weak, purely
syntactic form of notation overloading: a symbol may
refer to different definitions depending on which notation scopes
are currently open.  For instance, the infix symbol ``+`` can be
used to refer to distinct definitions of the addition operator,
such as for natural numbers, integers or reals.
Notation scopes can include an interpretation for numerals and
strings with the :cmd:`Numeral Notation` and :cmd:`String Notation` commands.

>    .. todo PR dropped "at the OCaml level" above--not needed, right?

Reviewer: Right.

      scope_key ::= @ident

Each notation scope has a single :token:`scope_name`, which by convention
ends with the suffix "_scope", as in "nat_scope".  One or more :token:`scope_key`\s
(delimiting keys) may be associated with a notation scope with the :cmd:`Delimit Scope` command.
Most commands use :token:`scope_name`; :token:`scope_key`\s are used within :token:`term`\s.

.. cmd:: Declare Scope @scope_name

   Declares a new notation scope. Note that the initial
   state of Coq declares the following notation scopes:
   ``core_scope``, ``type_scope``, ``function_scope``, ``nat_scope``,
   ``bool_scope``, ``list_scope``, ``int_scope``, ``uint_scope``.

   Use commands such as :cmd:`Notation` to add notations to the scope.

Global interpretation rules for notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. todo the evidence suggests that scopes are not organized as a stack,
   so it's incorrect to refer to a stack of scopes below
   1. One would expect the follow sequence would give an error because the last
   command is not a pop.
     Require Import ZArith.
     Require Import PrimFloat.
     Open Scope Z_scope.
     Open Scope float_scope.
     Close Scope Z_scope.

>    2. Print Visibility shows that items in the middle of the stack can be removed.

Reviewer 2: Indeed, `Close Scope` operates in the middle of the "scope stack".  But it's impossible to insert a new scope in the middle (you have to re-open all the ones after it again), and printing generally prefers the most recently opened stack, and parsing always does.

Author: Explained the "stack"  more in the text and dropped the todo.

At any time, the interpretation of a notation for a term is done within
a *stack* of notation scopes and lonely notations. If a
notation is defined in multiple scopes, |Coq| uses the interpretation from
the most recently opened notation scope or declared lonely notation.

Use the :cmd:`Print Visibility` command to display the current notation scope stack.

.. cmd:: Open Scope @scope

   Adds a scope to the notation scope stack.

   When the command appears in a section, the scope is only added within the section.
   When the command is outside a section, the scope is exported as part of the current module.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` and :attr:`global` attributes.
   :attr:`local` adds the scope only in the current module.  :attr:`global`
   adds the scope outside all currently open sections in the innermost open
   module.  :attr:`global` has no effect if the command is not inside a section.

.. cmd:: Close Scope @scope

   Removes a scope from the notation scope stack.

   Notice that this command does not only cancel the last :n:`Open Scope @scope`
   but all its invocations.

>    .. todo PR: invocations?

Reviewer: All the previous times this command was called.

Author: Doing the same `Open Scope foo.` twice in a row is idempotent, right?  I guess opening foo, then bar, then foo is equivalent to opening bar and then foo.  A scope can only appear once in the stack, so the "invocations" is a bit misleading.

I will leave leave as a post-PR todo.

Reviewer: sounds reasonable

   When the command appears in a section, the removal applies only within the section.

   .. todo PR I don't understand how closing a scope relates to exporting a module

   .. todo PR When the command is outside a section, the removal

>       is exported as part of the current module.  What does that mean?

Reviewer: I've already answered these two `todo` but since you added `PR`, my answers do not show anymore in the Changes tab.

Author: It's still present here: https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11718#discussion_r413667817 but hard to find since it's marked "outdated".  I knew roughly where it was so it didn't take too long to find.  It's not present in the files view.

Oddly, I don't recall reading the comment earlier even though I go through the comments sequentially.

Perhaps the lesson is to avoid changing these anchor lines unnecessarily.  When practical.

Author: I think I got it, please take another look.

.. cmd:: Open Scope @scope

   Adds a scope to the interpretation scope stack.

   When the command appears in a section, the scope is only added within the section.
   When the command is outside a section, the scope is exported as part of the current module.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` and :attr:`global` attributes.
   :attr:`local` adds the scope only in the current module.  :attr:`global`

>    adds the scope outside the current section but has no effect if the

Reviewer 2: Not just outside the current section but outside all sections, in the innermost enclosing module.  Does this nuance matter?

Author: How is this?  We still need further work on the descriptions of `local` and `global`; we should document the various semantic patterns very clearly and have the commands refer to them.  Repeating similar somewhat nontrivial wording everywhere is harder to read.

```
   :attr:`global`
   adds the scope outside all currently open sections in the innermost open
   module.  :attr:`global` has no effect if the command is not inside a section.
```

Reviewer 2: That seems good to me

   command is not inside a section.

.. cmd:: Close Scope @scope

   Removes a scope from the interpretation scope stack.

>    Notice that this command does not only cancel the last :n:`Open Scope @scope`

Reviewer 2: Perhaps "note" would be a bit more idiomatic than "notice"

Author: Sure.  The goal of this PR is to get the correct syntax in the syntax extensions chapter and make necessary adjustments to reflect that syntax.  Very selectively rewriting some things.  And a few other changes that creep in.  There will be further passes through the document for wording, to add examples, introductions, explanation of some of the syntax and conceptual material.

   :n:`Open Scope @scope`.
   Adds a scope to the interpretation scope stack.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` attribute, which limits the scope to the
   current module.

.. cmd:: Close Scope @scope

   It is also possible to remove a scope from the interpretation scope
   stack by using the command :n:`Close Scope @scope`.
   Removes a scope from the interpretation scope stack.

   Notice that this command does not only cancel the last :n:`Open Scope @scope`
   but all its invocations.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` attribute, which limits the scope to the
   current module.

.. note:: ``Open Scope`` and ``Close Scope`` do not survive the end of sections
          where they occur. When defined outside of a section, they are exported
          to the modules that import the module where they occur.

.. cmd:: Local Open Scope @scope.
         Local Close Scope @scope.

   These variants are not exported to the modules that import the module where
   they occur, even if outside a section.

.. cmd:: Global Open Scope @scope.
         Global Close Scope @scope.

   These variants survive sections. They behave as if Global were absent when

>    not inside a section.

Author: Take a look at what I wrote.  I don't understand how closing a scope relates to exporting a module.  Importing a module should never remove something from the environment.

We need to do better explaining local and global--there should be a couple well-explained models for the various behaviors.  Commands should identify the model they use.  Not good to repeat the slightly slippery details over and over for so many commands with vary wording.  Also I wonder how much we can rely on the old doc.  For example, it appears that `local` and `global` apply to all the Notation commands.

>    not inside a section.

Reviewer: > Take a look at what I wrote. I don't understand how closing a scope relates to exporting a module. Importing a module should never remove something from the environment.

I've answered on your leftover `todo`.

> We need to do better explaining local and global--there should be a couple well-explained models for the various behaviors. Commands should identify the model they use. Not good to repeat the slightly slippery details over and over for so many commands with vary wording. Also I wonder how much we can rely on the old doc. For example, it appears that `local` and `global` apply to all the Notation commands.

Yes, although the plan to improve the situation will probably be to create more locality attributes with a well-defined behavior. A first step in this direction was the introduction of `export`.

In such a situation, the term term, and all its subterms, are
interpreted in the scope stack extended with the scope bound to :token:`ident`.

> .. cmd:: Delimit Scope @ident with @scope

Reviewer: This change and your previous `todo` make me realize that we have be using the `scope` nonterminal inconsistently throughout the grammar. Sometimes to mean the scope name itself (as in `: @scope`) and sometimes to mean the delimiting key (as in `% @scope`). We could probably change this to `@scope_name` and `@scope_key`. Another solution would is to backtrack on the introduction of this nonterminal and to use instead `@ident__scopename` and `@ident__scopekey` when this is deemed useful and just `@ident` everywhere else.

Author: Let's use `@scope_name` and `@scope_key`.  Commands always take one or the other but never both?  One of them is always in the form `XXX_scope`?  Why is this a useful distinction?  If it is, we should explain why.  Can you identify which places take which type of scope?

> Another solution would is ... to use instead `@ident__scopename` and `@ident__scopekey` when this is deemed useful and just `@ident` everywhere else.

No, we should use subscripts only when we have no alternative.

Reviewer: >  Commands always take one or the other but never both?

When a scope is passed as argument to a command, it is generally a scope name.
One command takes both, it is: `Delimit Scope @scope_name with @scope_key`.

>  One of them is always in the form `XXX_scope`?

It is just a convention of the standard library, but Coq does not enforce it.

> Why is this a useful distinction? If it is, we should explain why.

It is my impression that the doc already explains this distinction. Scopes must always have a name, but having a delimiting key is optional. When you only have the name, you can attach notations to a scope, open and close interpretation scopes. This is already pretty useful. When you have a delimiting key, you additionally have access to the `% @scope_key` syntax which gives you even more flexibility. Usually, the scope name is longer to be less ambiguous and the delimiting key is shorter to be fewer characters to type, but it is perfectly acceptable to use the same identifier for both the scope name and the delimiting key.

It is my impression however, that the `%` syntax in the `Arguments` command accepts *both* scope names or delimiting keys.

Reviewer 3: > It is my impression however, that the % syntax in the Arguments command accepts both scope names or delimiting keys (oh right, this is already written in the doc of Arguments).

Yes, and see also #9123.

Author: > > Why is this a useful distinction?

Ah, I'm asking about the design, not Coq's current behavior.  Why shouldn't scope names and scope keys be interchangeable except where it obvious matters (e.g. defining a new scope).

Reviewer 2: If they were fully interchangeable than you couldn't have a useful `Undelimit Scope` command to remove the printing of notations when the scope is closed.  Also, in theory you can have a single scope bound to multiple keys, and you could also have multiple scopes bound to the same key.  (Does Coq behave well in either of these cases?  I've never tested them.). If these uses are deemed not worth keeping, then `Undelimit Scope` could be replaced with `Disable Printing` or something and scope names and keys could be combined.

Author: Clearly `Delimit Scope` and `Undelimit Scope` should apply to the keys.  (You did see my qualification "except where it obviously matters"?)  OTOH, why shouldn't users be able to specify a scope name on a subterm rather than a scope key?

> If they were fully interchangeable than you couldn't have a useful Undelimit Scope command to remove the printing of notations when the scope is closed.

If that's a common use case, perhaps you would provide a simple example that I can add to the documentation?

What are the other use cases?  I don't know them.

> in theory you can have a single scope bound to multiple keys

That seems to be permitted but `Print Scopes` only shows one

> you could also have multiple scopes bound to the same key

If it's useful and I have an example I will mention it.

Reviewer 2: > OTOH, why shouldn't users be able to specify a scope name on a subterm rather than a scope key?

Because if users can do it, then they might ask "why can't the printer do it" (parsing and printing should be somewhat symmetric, I think), and the reason printing shouldn't be able to do it is because then `Undelimit Scope` will no longer work for turning off printing of a scope.

> If it's useful and if I have an example I will mention it.

I'm not sure if it's useful, but I can make an example if you want

Reviewer 2: > If they were fully interchangeable than you couldn't have a useful Undelimit Scope command to remove the printing of notations when the scope is closed.
>
> If that's a common use case, perhaps you would provide a simple example that I can add to the documentation?
>
> What are the other use cases? I don't know them.

```coq
Definition foo := 10.
Print foo. (* foo = 10 *)
Close Scope nat_scope.
Print foo. (* foo = 10%nat *)
Undelimit Scope nat_scope.
Print foo. (* foo = S 9 *)
Arguments S : clear scopes.
Print foo. (* foo = S (S (S (S (S (S (S (S (S (S O))))))))) *)
```

Author: An interesting example but not clear that it's useful in practice.  The last 4 lines of this variation show that the process is reversible:

```coq
Definition foo := 10.
Print foo. (* foo = 10 *)
Close Scope nat_scope.
Print foo. (* foo = 10%nat *)
Undelimit Scope nat_scope.
Print foo. (* foo = S 9 *)

Delimit Scope nat_scope with nat.
Print foo. (* foo = 10%nat *)
Open Scope nat_scope.
Print foo. (* foo = 10 *)
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, it's reversible, and this is important.  Being able to temporarily disable the printing of notations in just one scope is important for debugging, and can also be important in customizing printing.  It's also useful in defining scopes in notations, as in https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/9751#issuecomment-472432207 .  It also shows up in https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/8805#issuecomment-432281939 .

Author: > Being able to temporarily disable the printing of notations in just one scope is important for debugging,

"scope" meaning a scope key, not a scope name, right?

Can you give a realistic example where it's used to debug a user error?  The issues you linked to are using scope keys to debug Coq itself, a less frequent use case.  Is it useful for debugging printing problems, parsing problems, or both?  I'm not seeing what that would be; I've not used the feature much.

I think this information would go into the section on printing or parsing.

Also, I notice that `Delimit Scope C_scope with C.` from #8805 gives the warning message

```
Declaring a scope implicitly is deprecated; use in advance an explicit
"Declare Scope C_scope.". [undeclared-scope,deprecated]
```

Perhaps it should not be (it seems harmless), and the doc should mention this if the deprecation is removed.  OTOH, it only saves the one line `Declare Scope C_scope`

@Zimmi48, your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: > "scope" meaning a scope key, not a scope name, right?
> 
> Can you give a realistic example where it's used to debug a user error? The issues you linked to are using scope keys to debug Coq itself, a less frequent use case. Is it useful for debugging printing problems, parsing problems, or both? I'm not seeing what that would be; I've not used the feature much.

No, I mean a scope name.  (But currently there's a one-to-one-correspondence in the wild, I believe.)  It's useful for debugging unification issues when `Set Printing All` / `Unset Printing Notations` is too much of a hammer, and the relevant notations are just in a particular scope.

> Perhaps it should not be (it seems harmless), and the doc should mention this if the deprecation is removed. 

The justification is given in https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/7120 :
> `@RalfJung` commented (https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/6247#issuecomment-377202990) that the current implicit binding is awkward, since typos will silently create a new scope. I agree.

Reviewer 2: > The issues you linked to are using scope keys to debug Coq itself, a less frequent use case. 

Not all of them.  There is a use-case in https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/9751#issuecomment-472432207 which involves the confluence of three things:
1. You have a scope `test_scope` for which you want printing-and-parsing notations
2. You want notations in `test_scope` to print *only* when the scope is open, or when it has been enabled via `Arguments` or special notations, and you want it to never show up in printing via `(...)%test`.
3. You want to issue an `Arguments` or `Notation` command which binds the scope to a particular argument of the function/notation, so that the scope is opened automatically for parsing and printing in that position.

Author: That may be a good abstract statement.  It's neither a simple nor short statement.  I hoped you could give a _concrete_ example that has a few commands and a specific problem (expected _this_ output but got _that_ output).  Then the writeup might be along the lines of:

"Undelimit Scope, ... can be helpful for debugging printing and parsing notations.  For example, this: <commands> produced A when the user expected B.  Adding <commands>, you can see that the problem was X."

Or I could leave it at:  "Undelimit Scope, ... can be used to turn scopes and scope delimiters on and off, which can be helpful in debugging printing and parsing notations."

For either of those, I'd need a little help getting the wording details right.

Or we could just leave it as a todo.

FWIW I'm going to get some exercise before the sun goes down.  Back in an hour or two.

Reviewer 2: Here's a rather contrived and slightly lengthy but hopefully somewhat helpful example:
```coq
Axiom A : Set.
Axiom B : Set.
Axiom A_of_nat : nat -> A.
Axiom B_of_nat : nat -> B.
Axiom plusA : A -> A -> A.
Axiom plusB : B -> B -> B.
Delimit Scope A_scope with A.
Delimit Scope B_scope with B.
Coercion A_of_nat : nat >-> A.
Coercion B_of_nat : nat >-> B.
Infix "+" := plusA : A_scope.
Infix "+" := plusB : B_scope.
Axiom A_to_B : A -> B.
Arguments A_to_B _%A.
Coercion A_to_B : A >-> B.
Axiom P : forall {A}, A -> Prop.
Arguments P {_} _%B.
Notation P2 := P.
Delimit Scope foo_scope with foo.
Notation "'P2' x" := (P (A_to_B x)) (at level 10) : foo_scope.
Open Scope foo_scope.
Goal let x := 100 in
     let y := 101 in
     (P (plusB x y) -> P (plusB y x))
     -> (@P B (plusA x y) -> @P B (plusA y x)).
  cbv zeta; intro H.
  Fail apply H.
  (* Error: In environment
H : P2 (100 + 101) -> P2 (101 + 100)
Unable to unify "P2 (100 + 101) -> P2 (101 + 100)" with
 "P2 (100 + 101) -> P2 (101 + 100)".
   *)
  Set Printing All. (* good luck reading this with all the [S]s *)
  Unset Printing All.
  Arguments P : clear scopes.
  Close Scope foo_scope.
  Undelimit Scope foo_scope.
  Undelimit Scope B_scope.
  Undelimit Scope A_scope.
  Fail apply H.
  (* The command has indeed failed with message:
In environment
In environment
H : P2 (plusB 100 101) -> P2 (plusB 101 100)
Unable to unify "P2 (plusB 100 101) -> P2 (plusB 101 100)" with
 "P2 (plusA 100 101) -> P2 (plusA 101 100)".
*)
```

Maybe something like
"Undelimit Scope, ... can be used to turn off the printing of notations bound to a particular scope, which can be useful when notations in a given scope are getting in the way of understanding a goal, but turning off all notations would make the goal unreadable."
?

Author: Thanks.  OK, I see that first Fail shows `+` to represent two different things and the second one distinguishes them.  I think I can write a sentence or two on this.

FWIW, I've wanted to learn how coercions work and what they're good for (among other features), but the manual doesn't explain this.

Reviewer 2: If you want to play around with coercions, I think the most useful identifiers to turn into coercions are is_true, Z.of_nat, Zpos, Npos, Z.of_N, and Q.inj_Z (I think that's what the Z -> Q function is called).

Author: I put this below the description of `Printing All`:

```
 .. note:: In some cases, setting :flag:`Printing All` may display terms
      that are so big they become very hard to read.  One technique to work around
      this is use :cmd:`Undelimit Scope` and/or :cmd:`Close Scope` to turn off the
      printing of notations bound to particular scope(s).  This can be useful when
      notations in a given scope are getting in the way of understanding
      a goal, but turning off all notations with :flag:`Printing All` would make
      the goal unreadable.
```

Reviewer 2: That seems good, though I wonder if it might be better placed with `Printing Notations` rather than `Printing All|

Author: Yeah, I thought about that a little.  While the notations info is pretty understandable, introducing concepts step by step, example by example, it's more of a tutorial than a reference manual style where the full spec is at the beginning and each aspect is explained in turn.  So this note didn't seem to fit the style so well under "Displaying symbolic notations".

I've given zero thought to further improvements to the syntax extensions chapter.  And lots of things will be moving around going forward.  Plenty of opportunity to put it in a better spot later.

   notations that is used to interpret a notation. The top of the stack
   is displayed last. Notations in scopes whose interpretation is hidden
   by the same notation in a more recently opened scope are not displayed.
   Hence each notation is displayed only once.

   If :n:`@scope` is specified,
   displays the current stack of notations in scopes and lonely
   notations as if the scope :n:`@scope` is pushed on top of the stack. This is
   useful to see how a subterm occurring locally in the scope is
   interpreted.

.. cmd:: Print Scopes

   Displays all notations, delimiting keys and the class to which it is bound
   for each existing interpretation scopes. It also displays
   lonely notations.

.. cmd:: Print Scope @scope
   :name: Print Scope

   Displays all notations defined in the interpretation scope :n:`@scope`.
   It also displays the delimiting key and the class to which the
   scope is bound, if any.

.. _Abbreviations:

Abbreviations
--------------

.. cmd:: Notation @ident {* @ident__parm } := @one_term {? ( only parsing ) }
   :name: Notation (abbreviation)

   .. todo: for some reason, Sphinx doesn't complain about a duplicate name if

>       :name: is omitted

Author: It's on my mental list.

   Defines an abbreviation :token:`ident` with the parameters :n:`@ident__parm`.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` attribute, which limits the notation to the
   current module.

>    .. todo there is another variant of Notation in this file, bring together??

Author: Yes, no problem as long as their names are different.

Displaying information about scopes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cmd:: Print Visibility {? @scope_name }

   Displays the current notation scope stack and lonely
   notations that are used to interpret notations. The top of the stack
   is displayed last. Notations in scopes whose interpretation is hidden
   by the same notation in a more recently opened scope are not displayed.
   Hence each notation is displayed only once.

>    .. todo PR actually, the lonely notation is part of the stack

Reviewer: What is the question?

   parsing and printing functions, respectively.  The parsing function
   :n:`@qualid__parse` should have one of the following types:

     * :n:`Decimal.int -> @qualid`
     * :n:`Decimal.int -> option @qualid`
     * :n:`Decimal.uint -> @qualid`
     * :n:`Decimal.uint -> option @qualid`
     * :n:`Z -> @qualid`
     * :n:`Z -> option @qualid`
     * :n:`Decimal.decimal -> @qualid`
     * :n:`Decimal.decimal -> option @qualid`

   And the printing function :n:`@qualid__print` should have one of the
   following types:

     * :n:`@qualid -> Decimal.int`
     * :n:`@qualid -> option Decimal.int`
     * :n:`@qualid -> Decimal.uint`
     * :n:`@qualid -> option Decimal.uint`
     * :n:`@qualid -> Z`
     * :n:`@qualid -> option Z`
     * :n:`@qualid -> Decimal.decimal`
     * :n:`@qualid -> option Decimal.decimal`

     When parsing, the application of the parsing function
     :n:`@qualid__parse` to the number will be fully reduced, and universes
     of the resulting term will be refreshed.

     Note that only fully-reduced ground terms (terms containing only
     function application, constructors, inductive type families,

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Author: Fixed.  BTW, we seem to use 3 space indentation a lot (e.g. for directives).  Should we only use 3 space increments in the rsts?  It's a bit odd to use 3.  2 is easier to deal with.

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Reviewer 4: 3 spaces is the standard usually, but it's not mandated.  See https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48311159/is-3-space-indentation-required-in-rest/48313531

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Author: 3 spaces doesn't work so well for me.  In my IDE I can set the indentation independently for a short list of predefined file types, including Python, then everything else is lumped under "Other File Types".  So setting to 3 would also apply to .ml files, which would not be good.  It's especially awkward when I want to change the indentation of a paragraph--I end up doing it line by line.

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Reviewer: I think that only indenting two spaces is ugly because it is badly aligned with the documented object (the three spaces correspond to `..` + a space).
I suggest that you use another IDE that supports the rst format for doing your edits to the manual. Having syntax highlighting would avoid you to do mistakes like forgetting a colon or backtick. Emacs works well for me (without any extension).

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Author: > I suggest that you use another IDE
> Emacs works well for me (without any extension).

Not gonna happen.  Definitely not a fan of emacs.  A topic that raises strong passions :-)

How about this in the doc for the Arguments command?  It mixes 3- and 2- indenting.

```
   ..

     `/`
       the function will be unfolded only if it's applied to at least the
       arguments appearing before the `/`.  See :ref:`Args_effect_on_unfolding`.
```

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Reviewer: What is the `..` for BTW? It's not needed to create such definition lists.

Anyway, I am aware that the documentation is not consistent everywhere regarding indentation, but that seems a minor thing to me (but I would prefer to be consistent whenever we introduce new indented code).

Note that I am of course not forcing you to change your IDE, and certainly not to use Emacs, but the fact that you are using an IDE which has poor support for Sphinx should not be an argument for deviating from the standard practices (which are well supported in other IDEs).

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Author: Well, I would not have asked about indentation at all if I didn't intend to do the right thing.  I take it then that we prefer consistent indent of 3 for new and changed material.

> What is the `..` for BTW?

Some Sphinx doc suggested it was needed to get the definition list style.  Apparently not needed or I misunderstood.

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Author: For bullet lists, 3-spacing requires an extra space after the `*`:

```
   *  Making arguments implicit. Afterward, implicit arguments
      must be omitted in any expression that applies :token:`smart_qualid`.
```

If there's only one space, the output is different:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/80315321-9bb96f80-87ab-11ea-836b-ef1cefddaba9.png)

compared to:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/80315346-c4da0000-87ab-11ea-888a-8d8e26be17a2.png)

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Reviewer: The rule should not always be "three spaces" but always as many spaces as necessary to align on the first line. So in the case of bullet-lists, two spaces is good. @cpitclaudel has more experience than me on this format and should confirm this.

>      sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

Author: How about this?  OK or should be 3 spaces after the first line?  Perhaps better not to have text on the same line as `.. note::`?

```
   .. note:: When you are referring to hypotheses which you did not name
             explicitly, be aware that Coq may make a different decision on how to
             name the variable in the current goal and in the context of the
             existential variable. This can lead to surprising behaviors.
```

And this should be 3 spaced after the first line, right?

```
      :n:`@name {? % @scope }`
        a *formal parameter* of the function :n:`@smart_qualid` (i.e.
        the parameter name used in the function definition).  Unless `rename` is specified,
        the list of :n:`@name`\s must be a prefix of the formal parameters, including all implicit
        arguments.  `_` can be used to skip over a formal parameter.
        :token:`scope` can be either a scope name or its delimiting key.  See :ref:`binding_to_scope`.

```

>    :n:`warning after` displays a warning message about a possible stack

Author: Got the first two points, couldn't figure out the 3rd warning to move.  Please take a look, let me know if I got it as you asked.

   .. exn:: Syntax error: [prim:reference] expected after 'Notation' (in [vernac:command]).

>      .. todo PR at least a couple of these are repeated below.  What do you suggest?

Reviewer: I suggest removing the first occurrence and adjusting the description of the second one to include both `Numeral Notation` and `String Notation`.

Author: There were 6 in common, they're now belong String Notation.  Two of them are syntax errors--we usually don't document those, and they might show up for other commands.  Take a look.

Reviewer 2: I think the syntax errors are important to document, at least currently.  Maybe once the manual is rewritten that will no longer be the case, but currently syntax errors are rather impenetrable, I think.  Furthermore, these are things that you might reasonably expect the system to handle, and it doesn't.  So, for example, if you write `Definition (id nat) := nat.`, this seems like a reasonable thing to be a syntax error of "I expected a name after definition, you gave me an open parenthesis".  But if you write `String Notation (list char) (@id _) (@id _) : list_char_scope`, the appropriate error message is "String Notation doesn't yet support types which are not single qualified identifiers" not "expected qualid, got open paren".  Or, worse, `Numeral Notation Z (@id _) (@id _) : Z_scope` should give "the parsing and printing functions must be a single qualified identifier" not "expected qualid after qualid, got open paren".

Author: We can keep these 2, but it seems like the number of possible errors is vast, so unlikely to add more now.  We should do better with the error messages so they can be understood without having the read the manual beyond the grammar itself.  That likely requires significant work on the parser.

Reviewer: @JasonGross Another solution would be to actually parse terms but reject anything that is not a qualid at interpretation time, with a clear error message.

Reviewer 2: > @JasonGross Another solution would be to actually parse terms but reject anything that is not a qualid at interpretation time, with a clear error message.

Perhaps we should do that

     Both functions passed to :cmd:`Numeral Notation` must be single
     identifiers.

     .. todo PR: in these 2 exns, how does "must be single identifiers" fit with their

>         declaration as qualid??

Reviewer: The descriptions are misleading. Add "qualified" in front of "identifiers".

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure the description is that misleading.  You get this error message if you try to pass an alias, notation, or term rather than a (qualified) identifier.  I'm not sure if you get this message if you pass an identifier that does not exist in the global environment.  Is there anything that's accepted by `ident` which is not accepted by `qualid`?

Author: So "single qualified identifiers"?

   .. exn:: The reference @ident was not found in the current environment.

     .. todo PR Should refer to @qualid, but that's a duplicate in vernacular_commands
        (and gets an error, whereas a duplicate within a file doesn't.  go figure)

>         The reference @qualid was not found in the current environment.

Reviewer: Remove this error message. It is very common and there is no point in putting it over and over in the documentation.

Reviewer 2: It should be documented somewhere, though, no?

Author: It is documented in vernacular_commands.

     Identifiers passed to :cmd:`Numeral Notation` must exist in the
     global environment.

   .. exn:: @qualid is bound to a notation that does not denote a reference.

     Identifiers passed to :cmd:`Numeral Notation` must be global
     references, or notations which denote to single identifiers.

>      .. todo PR: huh?  See preceeding todo

Reviewer: Besides the answers to the previous `todo`, I can explain the error message: it can happen if you have defined a `qualid` as an abbreviation using `Notation @qualid :=`. Example:

```coq
Notation foo := (@id nat).
Print foo.
Numeral Notation nat foo foo : nat_scope.
```

Reviewer 2: Should we include this example?

       (i.e. :n:`@ident` ends with `_list_sep`).

     :n:`@ltac_expr`
       The tactic expression to substitute for the notation.  :n:`@ident__parm`
       tokens appearing in :n:`@ltac_expr` are substituted with the associated
       nonterminal value.

   For example, the following command defines a notation with a single parameter `x`.

   .. coqtop:: in

      Tactic Notation "destruct_with_eqn" constr(x) := destruct x eqn:?.

   For a complex example, examine the 16 `Tactic Notation "setoid_replace"`\s
   defined in :file:`$COQLIB/theories/Classes/SetoidTactics.v`, which are designed
   to accept any subset of 4 optional parameters.

   The nonterminals that can specified in the tactic notation are:

   .. todo PR At the moment I splice uconstr.  Should I bring it back?
      An untyped term is one that doesn't get typechecked??

   .. todo 'open_constr' appears to be another possible value based on the
      the message from "Tactic Notation open_constr := idtac".
      Also (at least) "ref", "string", "preident", "int" and "ssrpatternarg".
      (from reading .v files).
      Looks like any string passed to "make0" in the code is valid.  But do

>       we want to support all these?

Reviewer 2: I think we should add `string`, `open_constr`, maybe stuff from ssr ( we can ask @coq/ssreflect-maintainers ).  See also https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/9122.  I think we should not add duplicates/aliases, and instead remove the undocumented overloading as in https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/9122.  I think we should eventually document all the supported things, but we might want to tidy up some things before supporting them.

Author: Will consider in future PRs.  Added a link to your comment in the todo.

   .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1

      * -  Specified :token:`ident`
        - Parsed as
        - Interpreted as
        - as in tactic

      * - ``ident``
        - :token:`ident`
        - a user-given name
        - :tacn:`intro`

      * - ``simple_intropattern``
        - :token:`simple_intropattern`
        - an introduction pattern
        - :tacn:`assert` `as`

      * - ``hyp``
        - :token:`ident`
        - a hypothesis defined in context
        - :tacn:`clear`

      * - ``reference``
        - :token:`qualid`
        - a global reference of term
        - :tacn:`unfold`

      * - ``constr``
        - :token:`term`
        - a term
        - :tacn:`exact`

      * - ``uconstr``
        - :token:`term`
        - an untyped term
        - :tacn:`refine`

      * - ``integer``
        - :token:`int`
        - an integer
        -

      * - ``int_or_var``
        - :token:`int_or_var`
        - an integer
        - :tacn:`do`

      * - ``tactic``
        - :token:`ltac_expr`
        - a tactic
        -

      * - ``tacticn``

>         - :token:`ltac_expr` at level n

Reviewer 2: Is it valid to use levels other than 0..5?  I think it might not be, and somehow it should be specified that these are the valid/common levels.

Author: Good point.  `tactic6` is not accepted.  I changed this entry to look like this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/80320674-acc6a880-87cc-11ea-8021-1c51bc71b4da.png)

Reviewer 2: I don't see the change here in the PR.  And I think the second column should still be :token:`ltac_expr` at level n

Author: You will when I push :-).  Usually I push updates to a PR no more than once a day.  Still waiting for any further comments from you.  I'll plan to squash and push around 9 PM PDT this evening.

> I think the second column should still be :token:`ltac_expr` at level n.

Well, even the old, not updated chapter has ltac_expr0..3.  While we'll need to mention levels in a few places in the doc (to be added), we're presenting the grammar without making level a central concept.  At that time we'll put `level` in the glossary with a hyperlink.  (I expect the glossary will begin to appear in the doc sometime this week--with only a few definitions to begin with.)

If you still feel strongly about the second column I will change it back.

Reviewer 2: Ah, if `ltac_exprn` is used in other places in the text, then using it here seems fine.

Reviewer: @jfehrle Regarding the glossary, and the presentation of the grammar, have you noticed #12172?

Tactic Notations
-----------------

Tactic notations allow customizing the syntax of tactics.

> .. cmd:: Tactic Notation {? ( at level @num ) } {+ @ltac_production_item } := @ltac_expr

Reviewer 3: > At some point, Tactic Notation should be moved to the Ltac chapter

Indeed, that makes sense.

   .. insertprodn ltac_production_item ltac_production_item

   .. prodn::
      ltac_production_item ::= @string
      | @ident ( @ident {? , @string } )

>       | @ident

Author: > (`Tactic Notation foo := idtac.` fails with `Unknown entry foo.` This could be documented.)

Meaning it should be `Tactic Notation "foo" := idtac.`??  You think that's worth mentioning?

>       | @ident

Reviewer: Yes to your first question. Not sure to your second.

   This information is particularly relevant for notations of tacticals.
   Levels 0 to 5 are available (default is 5).

>    .. cmd:: Print Grammar @ident

Reviewer 3: It can be more than the three above. For instance, it can also be `pattern`. In principle, all defined grammars can be printed, but the `Print Grammar` is missing some tables iirc.

>    .. cmd:: Print Grammar @ident

Reviewer: @herbelin `pattern` was in the list of the "three above". What did you mean to say? In any case, only these three were documented. Where can we find the list of all defined grammars?

>    .. cmd:: Print Grammar @ident

Reviewer 3: Oups... Rectification, the only missing in the list is `vernac`.

The code is in `Metasyntax.pr_grammar` and the only non hard-wired grammar is `tactic` which the `ltac_plugin` registers. Other plugins are in principle allowed to register grammars too.

This is currently not active, but it would be feasible to allow printing the grammars for `sort`, `universe`, ... if ever useful.

>    .. cmd:: Print Grammar @ident

Author: Here lie dragons:
- the documentation presents an edited grammar that is equivalent to but that doesn't match this too closely--some nonterminal names are different, some productions have been combined in the doc. and other things.  For example, `Print Grammar vernac` shows entries for `vernac_control`, `syntax`, `gallina` and `gallina_ext` that we don't show in the documentation.
- productions are shown with a different syntax than in the doc, e.g. `  | IDENT "Section"; Prim.identref` versus

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/80269595-f648b380-8665-11ea-856e-7e741b2ec156.png)

We don't use `IDENT <string>` and `Prim.identref` is just `ident` in the doc.

Furthermore, the output is not very user friendly.  It doesn't show Tactic Notations.  Perhaps it is useful to developers for debugging Coq.  Not sure if it's worth keeping.

A related issue is that the nonterminals mentioned in parser error messages don't match what we're showing in the documentation.  That's probably worth fixing at some point.

I will fix the writeup for `Print Grammar`.,

>    .. cmd:: Print Grammar @ident

Reviewer: Yes, once we've finished updating the doc in the manual, it would be great to change the parser as much as possible to match closely the manual, so that understanding parsing errors becomes easier and can be done with the help of the manual.

   following table. The last command gives examples of tactics which use
   the corresponding kind of argument.

   .. todo this table is too wide in HTML, I see a horizontal scroll bar.

>       Any ideas on easy ways to make it fit?  The hard way is

Reviewer: We could remove the "as in" column. There was a issue opened recently saying that it is bogus anyway.

Reviewer 2: I think the `as in` column is useful for newcomers wondering how the scopes differ.  Alternatively, if there's a way to do a reverse-search on the grammar ("show me all the tactics whose grammar mentions ne_ident_list"), that'd be a decent replacement.

Author: > I think the `as in` column is useful for newcomers wondering how the scopes differ.

I think you mean to see how the nonterminals are used (they're not scopes, eh?).  How important is that use case given that the second column links to the syntax for the nonterminal, which explains it (or eventually will)?  IMHO not too important.

Perhaps we could have the full grammar as an appendix, although Théo wasn't a fan of the concept earlier.  We don't use things like "ne_ident_list"; that would be shown in notation form, e.g.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/80272793-67e22b00-8681-11ea-8efc-a9dc0237ba02.png)

Reviewer: Indeed, they're not scopes. Indeed, I don't think that having the full grammar as an appendix would be useful.

Reviewer: If @JasonGross thinks the `as in` column should be restored, then so be it. It's not such a big deal that you have to scroll horizontally to see this last column.

Author: And so it shall be.

   .. todo At the moment I splice uconstr.  Should I bring it back?

>       An untyped term is one that doesn't get typechecked??

Reviewer: I don't think so. An untyped term just doesn't get typed *before* being passed as argument to the tactic. It avoids getting errors for holes whose type could not be inferred as in the following example:

```coq
Tactic Notation "refine_typed" constr(x) := refine x.
Tactic Notation "refine_untyped" uconstr(x) := refine x.

Goal True -> True.
Fail refine_typed (fun x => _).
refine_untyped (fun x => _).
```

However, the tactic itself will be able to type-check the term using additional information (for instance by matching the term with the current goal).

Author: OK, untyped is not a good description.  How about something like "term_with_holes"?

Reviewer: I think untyped is fine.

Reviewer 2: Yes, untyped is fine.  Note that in your particular example, `open_constr` would also work in place of `uconstr`.  You need sightly more exotic terms to see the difference between `uconstr` and `open_constr`

Reviewer: Is `open_constr` missing from the table?

Author: > Is `open_constr` missing from the table?

Yes.  I will add a todo.

Reviewer 2: Yes, apparently `open_constr` is missing.  Perhaps a good example is `open_constr` as in `epose`.  It was apparently also missing from the grammar list of `tactic_argument_type` (why did the grammar for `tactic_argument_type` disappear?)

Author: Is `tactic_argument_type` the right string?  I don't see that string in the source tree.

Looks like there are at least a dozen more that are not described including a bunch for SSR.  I don't want to add them right now in this PR (but maybe soon when we do the Ltac chapter).  I left this in the file:

```
   .. todo 'open_constr' appears to be another possible value based on the
      the message from "Tactic Notation open_constr := idtac".
      Also (at least) "ref", "string", "preident", "int" and "ssrpatternarg".
      (from reading .v files).
      Looks like any string passed to "make0" in the code is valid.  But do
      we want to support all these?
```

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/coq/coq/blob/master/doc/sphinx/user-extensions/syntax-extensions.rst#tactic-notations
```rst
Tactic Notations
-----------------

Tactic notations allow to customize the syntax of tactics. They have the following syntax:

.. productionlist:: coq
   tacn                 : Tactic Notation [`tactic_level`] [`prod_item` … `prod_item`] := `tactic`.
   prod_item            : `string` | `tactic_argument_type`(`ident`)
   tactic_level         : (at level `num`)
   tactic_argument_type : ident | simple_intropattern | reference
                        : hyp | hyp_list | ne_hyp_list
                        : constr | uconstr | constr_list | ne_constr_list
                        : integer | integer_list | ne_integer_list
                        : int_or_var | int_or_var_list | ne_int_or_var_list
                        : tactic | tactic0 | tactic1 | tactic2 | tactic3
                        : tactic4 | tactic5
```
This seems to have been deleted in the current version of the file

Author: Well, everything listed for `tactic_argument_type` is in the table in the `Tactic Notation` command.  The doc for the command says "ident is the name of a grammar nonterminal listed in the table below."  The table also makes clear the list variants apply to all the other entries.  You want to have both the table AND the grammar?

Reviewer: No, what you did is reasonable. From a syntax point of view, this is just an ident. We just have to document that this ident must be taken in this list. If you give an incorrect ident, it is not a parsing error but an interpretation error.

Reviewer 2: Is this conversation resolved now?  I can't tell.  (It seems like it might be to me.)

Author: The part about deleting `tactic_argument_type` is resolved since we agree.  I still wonder whether it makes sense to bring back `uconstr` in the grammar to make things more explicit.  I updated the todo to reflect this.

If I reply to a comment, I let the reviewer resolve the item.  Sometimes I leave comments unresolved for a while while I think about them some more.  The difference is communicated by telepathy.

A binary `Resolved` state doesn't work as well when multiple reviewers weigh in on a single comment.  May need to allow more time so both reviewers can see the most recent comments.  Resolved comments are harder to find in GitHub than unresolved comments..

Tactic Notations
-----------------

Tactic notations allow customizing the syntax of tactics.

.. todo move to the Ltac chapter

.. cmd:: Tactic Notation {? ( at level @num ) } {+ @ltac_production_item } := @ltac_expr

   .. insertprodn ltac_production_item ltac_production_item

   .. prodn::
      ltac_production_item ::= @string
      | @ident {? ( @ident {? , @string } ) }

   Defines a *tactic notation*, which extends the parsing and pretty-printing of tactics.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` attribute, which limits the notation to the
   current module.

   .. todo PR any words of wisdom on when to use tactic notation vs ltac?
      can you run into problems if you shadow another tactic or tactic notation?

>       If so, how avoid ambiguity?

Reviewer: Tactic notations are more powerful because they modify the parser instead of just defining a new object. But no, I don't have any wisdom to share. I think this kind of discussion should be delayed until we do take care of improving the Ltac chapter, and moving this section there. Then, we can ask the specialists.

   ..

     :token:`num`
       The parsing precedence to assign to the notation.  This information is particularly
       relevant for notations for tacticals.  Levels can be in the range 0 .. 5 (default is 5).

     :n:`{+ @ltac_production_item }`
       The notation syntax.  Notations for simple tactics should begin with a :token:`string`.

     :token:`string`
       represents a literal value in the notation

     :n:`@ident`
       is the name of a grammar nonterminal listed in the table below.  In a few cases,
       to maintain backward compatibility, the name differs from the nonterminal name
       used elsewhere in the documentation.

     :n:`( @ident__parm {? , @string__s } )`
       :n:`@ident__parm` is the parameter name associated with :n:`@ident`.   The :n:`@string__s`
       is the separator string to use when :n:`@ident` specifies a list with separators
       (i.e. :n:`@ident` ends with `_list_sep`).

     :n:`@ltac_expr`

>        The tactic expression to substitute for the notation.  :n:`ident__parm`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       The tactic expression to substitute for the notation.  :n:`@ident__parm`
```
